Something to point out in the ICMP message NPM is inserting data.
So the NPM server 10 1 100 100 is sending an echo request but he's including data in the message NPM
does this by default.
And one of the reasons for doing this is that some devices between your enemies and the device that
you pinging may block ICMP packets with certain criteria in the data fields.
Some firewalls as an example may block packets with a zero sized data field and some firewalls will
block packets with large payloads some devices even block ICMP packets that are even or odd in size
in this capture we can see that the response packet was sent from Rodda to to the end a mess.
So it's an ICMP echo reply message and the NHS will calculate the difference between the time that the
request was sent and the reply received and it uses that to calculate the round trip response time or
latency of the network.
Now he has an SMP message once again from the network management station.
In other words NPM to Rodda to 10:01 102.
You can see this is an SMP message and isn't it uses UDP.
Or use a datagram protocol which is a connection protocol unlike TZP UDP doesn't provide reliability
in the same way that TZP does.
You'll also notice that the ports port 1 6 1 so the network management station is communicating with
the Rodda on destination port 1 6 1 and the rodders replying back from port 1 6 1 to the ephemeral or
random port number that was chosen by the end a mess for this connection it's important to remember
that UDP port 161 is the destination port that the mass initiate sessions too.
In other words the NMSL NPM in this case is going to be initiating sessions to routers on port 161.
You need to ensure that your firewalls all access lists or ACLC permit or allow UDP port 161 from the
mess to the devices that are being monitored.
And the reverse traffic also needs to be permitted.
You may even want to configure devices to use a non-default port for SMP.
So rather than using the default port of 161 you may choose to use a nother port number like 10000 161.
You would configure that on the device and you would also need to configure that on NPM So knows which
port number to use to connect to that device for monitoring in both the House and AP get S&P request
as well as the response you'll see the ID values and move information that NPM is getting from the device.
So in the request we can see that the values are null and in the reply we can see the actual values
for those IDs.
We'll explore that in more detail in a separate video where we discuss over IDs maps and other options.